# Semantic Segmentation Approach on Road Scenes for Autonomous Driving  
Notre Dame CSE 40171 | 12 December 2018 | Joe McGrath, Jack Takazawa, Paul Brunts, Dylan Greene

This project implements two different segmentation approaches for autonomous driving.  The first is a modular approach, using image processing techniques to determine the location of the lane lines followed by object detection using a neural network.  The second is a pixel level semantic segmentation approach, using neural networks in TensorFlow to determine road scene segmentation.

## Requirements  
- [OpenCV v3.4](https://opencv.org)
- [Python 2.7](https://www.python.org)
- [numpy](https://www.numpy.org)  

## Modular Segmentation Implementation
This portion of the project implements an image processing pipeline that first recognizes the lane line position using image transforms and then recognizes other objects in the image using the YOLOv3 neural network.  The function will output the current processing time in seconds so that you may track the current length of the output video.  If you wish to change the input or output videos, the filenames may be changed in processVideo.py.  Note: the program currently assumes an input video that is 1280x720. If you wish to use an input video with different dimensions, the region of interest in shiftPerspective.py will need to be changed.
Usage: python processVideo.py

## Pixel Level Semantic Segmentation
As it stands, this portion of the project is left unfinished with regard to the desired final result. Currently an example image of the semantic segmentation can be generated by using the semanticSegmentation.py script, but the segmentationVideo.py script does not process the full video due to unforseen problems with video formatting. semanticSegmentation.py currently converts frame 13 as an example. If you would like to see a different picture segmented out, you would need to change the image path on line 146 of that file.

Additionally, the model used for the inference graph is too large to be stored o github. The model can be found in the following google drive folder:

https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1RgcL9c_9s9dnzzFmvaBYk0DwhwZ-Z4X9?usp=sharing

It should be placed in a folder in the main project directory called 'model_dir'so that the path to the model looks like:

"~/project_repository/model_dir/deeplab_model.tar.gz"

This is required for the use of this portion.

Usage: python semanticSegmentation.py

